Dear All, 


The Department of Liberal Arts invites you to our weekly seminar by Professor Phanindra Goyari, School of Economics, University of Hyderabad on 4 October 2017 at 2.30pm in Room no. 317, Block A. 


Title: The Efficiency of Summer Paddy Cultivation in BTAD Region of Assam: A Non-Parametric Approach



Abstract: Normally, the summer rice in India was cultivated in water-logged low-lying areas during November to May to utilize residual water in the soil. It was cultivated in river basin deltas where water accumulated during monsoon and could not be drained out in the winter months. But, with the arrival of many high yielding varieties of paddy, most of which are of short maturity duration, and with the spread of minor irrigation, the summer paddy is now cultivated almost in all types of soil and land height wherever irrigation water is available. In Assam, paddy is cultivated in three seasons - autumn, winter, and summer. In terms of acreage and production, winter rice has traditionally been the most dominant, followed by autumn paddy. However, in recent decade, the acreage and output shares of winter and autumn rice together in total rice area have been declining continuously while the importance of summer rice has been increasing in term of acreage allocation and yield. This trend has led to discussions among academicians and policy makers on several issues including the efficiency aspect. Under this background, the present study has examined the technical, allocative, cost and scale efficiencies of paddy cultivation during summer vis-à-vis winter and autumn seasons in Assam. The study applied the non-parametric method of Data Envelopment Analysis. It also examines various factors influencing the summer paddy cultivation and constraints faced by sample farmers, and then it suggests policy measures/strategies for sustainable summer paddy cultivation. The study is based mainly on the primary survey data collected from the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts region of Assam.

Bionote: 

Dr. Phanindra Goyari is currently a Professor of Economics in the School of Economics at the University of Hyderabad (UoH). Recently, he has successfully completed his UGC Raman Fellowship period and Post Doctoral Research works at Texas Christian University in USA. He has been teaching various courses of Economics for more than 17 years to MA and integrated MA students. His present research interests are broadly in agricultural economics, nonparametric econometric modeling, tourism economics, tribal and development issues of Northeast India. He has been guiding MPhil scholars (13 awarded, 3 ongoing) and PhD scholars (6 awarded, 8 ongoing). He has 4 books to his credit till now. His research publications have appeared in journals like The Journal of Developing Areas, Economic and Political Weekly, Indian Journal of Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Economics Research Review, Agricultural Economics Review, Indian Economic Journal, South Asian Journal of Management, Journal of Economic Policy and Research, Finance India, The Indian Journal of Economics, South Asia Research, Asian Economic Review and so on. 
